# How to Contribute to fpga_examples project

## How to add a new example

1. Use/create a *vendor_board* sub directory under *examples* directory, where:
   * vendor: name of the vendor of the board.
   * board: name/code of the board.
2. Create (if not exists yet) a README.md file with general information about Features, Power Supply and Programming Options of the board.
3. [optional] Obtain additional files provided by the vendor.
   * Try to avoid include vendor's files on the respository. Try to generate them.
   * Put files on resources sub directory.
   * Add how were obtained in the resources/README.md file.
4. Create a sub directory for the example. Some possible names:
   * clock: for examples about using on-board clock sources.
   * gpios: for examples about GPIOs (including LEDs and switches).
   * Self-explaining short names (such as ddr3, gtx, epcs, etc) for others.
   * Note: use 2, 3 and so on when more than one example.
5. Create *top.vhdl* and a *wrapper.vhdl* (when needed).
6. Add a constraint file (*board.ext*).
7. Add a Makefile generated by fpga_helpers for synthesis and implementation.
   * If needed, add a *prepare* target to run needed actions to generates files from ../resources.
8. Add README.md, a tutorial to run and reproduce the example. Include the sections:
   1. Description
   2. Useful documents
   3. How to use resources [optional]
   4. How to simulate [optional]
   5. How to run synthesis, implementation and programming
   6. How to test on hardware
   7. Comments [optional]
9. [optional] Create a sub directory testbench. Include:
   * top_tb.vhdl: a test or at least stimulus for top.vhdl.
   * Makefile: to run (default target) the test and see (another target) waveforms.
   * files*.ext*: file with the files of the project.
   * waves*.ext*: file with waveform to visualize.
10. Add the example description to README.md (examples directory), under the section *List of examples*.

## Git logs

Example:
```
target: very short description

Long description with items if needed:
* target is a directory, such as docs or any of the *vendor_board*.
* If you don't have a very short description, consider to do partial commits.
* In long description, you can explain what do you add or fixed as general concept.
* You can also use a list of items explaining what do you do in individual files.
```

## HDL code

* VHDL is the prefered HDL language to use.
* Use suffix such as _i, _o and _io on ports names.
* Try to keep top.vhdl simple to understand and well documented.
* Add a wrapper.vhdl file when need to drive a complex vendor's core.

## File Header

Example for HDL files such as wrapper.vhdl, top.vhdl and top_tb.vhdl:
```
--
-- Name
--
-- [Optional] Description
--
-- Author(s):
-- * Name of the author(s) of the file
--
-- Copyright (c) Year Authors
-- Distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License
--
```

## CONTRIBUTORS.md

This file is automatically generated (using git log) running `make contributors` on root directory.
