# How to add a new example
1. Use/create a *vendor_board* sub directory under *examples* directory, where:
   * vendor: name of the vendor of the board.
   * board: name/code of the board.
2. Create (if not exists yet) a README.md file with general information about Features, Power Supply and Programming Options of the board.
3. Create a sub directory for the example. Some possible names:
   * clock: for examples about using on-board clock sources.
   * gpios: for examples about GPIOs (including LEDs and switches).
   * Self-explaining short names (such as ddr3, gtx, epcs, etc) for others.
   * Note: use 2, 3 and so on when more than one example.
4. [optional] Obtain additional files provided by the vendor.
   * Try to avoid include vendor's files on the respository. Try to generate them.
   * Add a *prepare* target to the Makefile to run needed actions.
   * Note: resources directory is in *.gitignore*. Use `git add -f resources/WHATEVER` when needed.
5. Create the top level of you example (top.vhdl) and a wrapper (wrapper.vhdl) [optional] when needed.
6. Add a constraint file (*board.ext*).
7. Add a Makefile generated by fpga_helpers for synthesis and implementation.
8. Add README.md, a tutorial to run and reproduce the example. Include the sections:
   1. Description
   2. Useful documents
   3. How resources were obtained [optional]
   4. How to use resources [optional]
   5. How to simulate [optional]
   6. How to run synthesis, implementation and programming
   7. How to test on hardware
   8. Comments [optional]
9. [optional] Create a sub directory testbench. Include:
   * top_tb.vhdl: a test or at least stimulus for top.vhdl.
   * Makefile: to run (default target) the test and see (another target) waveforms.
   * files*.ext*: file with the files of the project.
   * waves*.ext*: file with waveform to visualize.
10. Add the example description to README.md (examples directory), under the section *List of examples*.
11. If no present, add yourself to CONTRIBUTORS.md, under the section *List of Contributors*.
